
Explain basic security terms like authentication, authorization, confidentiality, integrity, SSL/TLS and
provide examples of how you have used them.



Authentication = login + password (who you are)
Authorization = permissions (what you are allowed to do)

Authentication is the mechanism whereby systems may securely identify their users.
Authentication systems provide an answers to the questions:

Who is the user?
Is the user really who he/she represents himself to be?

Authorization, by contrast, is the mechanism by which a system determines what level of access a particular
authenticated user should have to secured resources controlled by the system. For example, a database
management system might be designed so as to provide certain specified individuals with the ability to
retrieve information from a database but not the ability to change data stored in the datbase, while giving
other individuals the ability to change data. Authorization systems provide answers to the questions:

Is user X authorized to access resource R?
Is user X authorized to perform operation P?
Is user X authorized to perform operation P on resource R?



Confidentiality
Involves a set of rules or a promise that limits access or places restrictions on certain types of
information. In information security, confidentiality "is the property, that information is not made
available or disclosed to unauthorized individuals, entities, or processes.

Integrity
Maintaining and assuring the accuracy and completeness of data over its entire life-cycle. This means that
data cannot be modified in an unauthorized or undetected manner.

SSL/TLS
SSL is an Internet security protocol used by Internet browsers and Web servers to transmit sensitive
information. SSL has become part of an overall security protocol known as Transport Layer Security (TLS).
TLS and its predecessor SSL make significant use of certificate authorities. Once your browser requests a
secure page and adds the "s" onto "http," the browser sends out the public key and the certificate, checking
three things:
1) that the certificate comes from a trusted party;
2) that the certificate is currently valid;
3) that the certificate has a relationship with the site from which it's coming.

If you are using a secure protocol, an "s" will be added to http, and a green lock symbol will appear in
the browser.


http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6556522/authentication-versus-authorization
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_security
http://computer.howstuffworks.com/encryption4.htm
