
Explain basic security threads like: Cross Site Scripting (XSS), SQL Injection and whether something similar
to SQL injection is possible with NoSQL databases like MongoDB, and DOS-attacks. Explain/demonstrate
ways to cope with these problems



XSS
Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) attacks are a type of injection, in which malicious scripts are injected into
otherwise benign and trusted web sites. XSS attacks occur when an attacker uses a web application to send
malicious code, generally in the form of a browser side script, to a different end user. Flaws that allow
these attacks to succeed are quite widespread and occur anywhere a web application uses input from a user
within the output it generates without validating or encoding it.

An attacker can use XSS to send a malicious script to an unsuspecting user. The end user’s browser has no
way to know that the script should not be trusted, and will execute the script. Because it thinks the script
came from a trusted source, the malicious script can access any cookies, session tokens, or other sensitive
information retained by the browser and used with that site. These scripts can even rewrite the content of the
HTML page.

SQL Injection
A code injection technique, used to attack data-driven applications, in which malicious SQL statements are
inserted into an entry field for execution (e.g. to dump the database contents to the attacker). SQL injection
attacks allow attackers to spoof identity, tamper with existing data, cause repudiation issues such as voiding
transactions or changing balances, allow the complete disclosure of all data on the system, destroy the data
or make it otherwise unavailable, and become administrators of the database server.

NoSQL Injection
We no longer deal with a query language in the form of a string therefore one would think that injection
is no longer possible... wrong! For example, assume that the username field is coming from a deserialized J
SON object, manipulation of the above query is not only possible but inevitable. Such as, if one supplies a
JSON document as the input to the application, an attacker will be able to perform the exact same login bypass
that was before possible only with SQL injection.

Server code: db.accounts.find({username: username, password: password});
Client creates following json request ->
{ "username": "admin", "password": {$gt: ""} }

Result is that "Get all users with username admin and password greater than emptry String", returns all admins.


DOS-attacks
In computing, a denial-of-service (DoS) attack is an attempt to make a machine or network resource unavailable
to its intended users, such as to temporarily or indefinitely interrupt or suspend services of a host connected
to the Internet. A distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) is where the attack source is more than one, often
thousands of, unique IP addresses. It is analogous to a group of people crowding the entry door or gate to a
shop or business, and not letting legitimate parties enter into the shop or business, disrupting normal
operations.

Ways to cope with these problems
Here are some measures to prevent SQL / NoSQL injection attacks, or minimize impact if it happens:
Prepared Statements: For SQL calls, use prepared statements instead of building dynamic queries using string
concatenation.
Input Validation: Validate inputs to detect malicious values. For NoSQL databases, also validate input types
against expected types
Least Privilege: To minimize the potential damage of a successful injection attack, do not assign DBA or admin
type access rights to your application accounts. Similarly minimize the privileges of the operating system
account that the database process runs under.


https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cross-site_Scripting_(XSS)
http://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_injection.asp
https://ckarande.gitbooks.io/owasp-nodegoat-tutorial/content/tutorial/a1_-_sql_and_nosql_injection.html
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denial-of-service_attack